we are talking about Game of Thrones
this is my enormous girlfriend she looks
taller than me because she's sitting on
my knee she's not really talking I have
read all the books to death I've got a
playlist on this channel of videos about
A Song of Ice and Fire Game of Thrones
and my girlfriend has not so we went
through the experience of me kind of
introducing her to this fictional world
and this corpus of literature because
that's what it is at this point and
interestingly we started that not with
the TV show we actually started that by
reading the Dunkin egg stories right and
I really kind of hype there looked up
the Duncan egg miniseries we're going to
call it is a really good way to get
started with the Game of Thrones
Song of Ice and Fire universe and now
just recently just passed a handful of
days or something we watched seasons 1
through 4 together of the TV show the TV
adaptation so look what we are talking
about this video I mean one thing that
came up for me getting into general
headings is some things were done better
on the TV show worse in the books a lot
of things of course are worse than the
TV show them in the books and inevitable
we talked about this while we're
watching the show as boyfriend and
girlfriend
have double and impossible to it's in
electable to talk about those things I
think also soninke Meganium was just the
issue of good writing and bad writer I
mean some things are not well written
and watching the TV show of anything
reminded me also bad writing in the
books you know again really talked about
examples that well let's just look you
at this stage just throwing out themes
to talk about stuff you wanted Agra to
come on your head like what what what's
on your mind after watching for season 2
the show what makes somebody brave what
makes someone honourable oh my god yeah
okay big questions yeah yeah we did talk
about how to deal with people who are in
need of charity poor people how they're
treated yeah in the books IRS's in the
show oh right okay innocent so basically
like how peasants and the poor are
depicted if they're depicted at all on
the TV sure so right we that's funny we
talked about that and then after each
other but we could saw a couple of
episodes where we did have a few poor
people crowding on yeah no that was that
was a really good
like a good good set of observation your
part but I mean I think the topic
beneath that is really how do you create
viewer interest at all yeah you know I
was saying I kind of lose interest in
the show I love watching the show with
as well because of the commentary that's
pretty much why we continued watching it
I was not interested in the show
subscribe now
yeah I wasn't interested in the show
before I met ISIL but yeah or the books
you hadn't read it read it or seen the
book see the show but yeah so I guess
it's kind of not interesting as much as
it could have been because it's focuses
on just about the rich class really
narrow class kings and queens rather
than I guess there are work a few scenes
in the last season with Brooke yeah yeah
well if the peasants aren't really
characters they show up and they die
yeah same thing
yes almost those if they show up and
then they're evolved and died or
something yeah but they do they do show
up and get a few lines but yeah that's
about it yeah
look I think that's really interesting
so we do have this assumption in
literature you know the traditional
definition of tragedy was tragedy is
when a nobleman goes wrong that was a
definition you Shakespeare you know
there's this kind of weird assumption in
Western literature that everything is
more interesting when it concerns
aristocrats
but it was really obvious to us watching
and talking about this series that it's
actually much less interesting to watch
a shoe pop out of vote aristocrats or
millionaires
I mean maybe that's partly because of
the nature of the risk involved like
even but look even when we talk about
rap music to me you rad music is a lot
less interesting if it's just
millionaires document how much money
that yeah yeah and of course it is very
often the same album you have that
contrast you have so-called struggle rap
rap about poverty and lack of
opportunity and dealing drugs to get by
or taking care of your baby mama
whatever you know like the viewing life
with struggle and then on the same album
is just rapping about how many hood you
have how much money you celebrating
conspicuously cameras how much ice you
wear and yeah but I think I think the
stakes are different I mean obviously
it's positive level well-written drama
in which all of the characters are
millionaires but there has to be risk
you know there has to be a sense of what
for danger and and aspiration right and
what have you but yeah that that was
interesting against the first time I
watched the TV show I didn't think of it
that way but the most egregious example
NoDo is is Daenerys where Daenerys his
own storyline the TV show oh yeah yeah
really becomes quite boring
yeah the treatment of slavery in the
show's right well I think it was done
very well okay but okay but look so
that's irrelevant so basically okay we
have Westeros and Essos you know the
West Indies needs their slavery in the
West there's serfdom and peasants and
poverty and starvation because
starvation is another issue in the books
doesn't show up in TV show much and kind
of alluded to it a few points well you
know there was this one very good
dialogue with sort of the right-hand man
abroad the right-hand man of Syria where
he talks about you don't know what it's
like during a siege you know first
there's no food then the thieves steal
all the food you know there's this
description of you know basically
dishonest and cruel people becoming
powerful because as soon as they control
the food they control those society and
so on okay I think one question is how
do you make a society itself interesting
on TV how do you make people interested
in social problems in a kind of really
kind of sociology you know political
analysis of a fictional world that's one
thing but the other question is okay
would it be more interesting if in De
Niro's storyline if there was a slave
just one who was really a character you
know I mean if there was a point of view
if you really saw the world through the
eyes of a slave in that society for a
bit and then but then a very Spanish
point in Westeros also what if we really
got the perspective of at least one
peasant yeah and I think for the TV
adaptation that would have been quite
easy to do yeah yeah I mentioned you
that I thought the scene with Jen
drienne Stannis's right-hand man third
on unite Yeah right
Davos yeah oh no fingers home yeah that
was interesting they were discussing how
they both grew yeah
King's Landing that's weird I guess
Davos okay that's you they discuss it
it's the same with slavery they
discussed slavery but they don't
actually show that right this is about
Shana tell you don't actually see
someone growing up that
you just see these guys referring back
to it yes and likewise you see people
talking about slavery we don't have a
care of who actually is a slave living
through that and so on so yeah that's I
mean I don't know it's funny though
that's so it's kind of so obvious I mean
just to give an example we could have
had one real peasant or one real slave
one real poor person instead of for
example Podrick Payne now Podrick is an
okay character members of Padre Pio
always wears on all red shirts
yeah and he fights in a few scenes and
so on he starts off as as Tyrians
right-hand man that moves on to become
assistant to free and tabria but you
know okay like I'm okay with Podrick
fine but it seems to me a writers room
sitting around say okay you know instead
of having this this character couldn't
we have one character who really speaks
as a peasant and for the peasants and
talks about the impact of the war you
know on the other 98% of society or
something yeah you know it just it seems
that one guard and also the way the
geographic focused the show moves around
for me as a writer I would have said
okay we could have that even if there
are comedic characters so you'd have two
peasants who keep showing up on
different corners of the map because
they keep running away as refugees from
these wars that break out and that might
you know that might like give some
weight and substance to the fact that
you know there are these wars happening
off-camera the most time we don't really
see we don't really see the nature of
the war itself or wooden yeah tons of
consequences you don't even see the
battle between the Starks and the
Lannisters really you see the criterion
get max out and yeah I don't think you
see a single battle between the Starks
the Lannisters that's right and even so
Jamie Lannister the guy was his hand cut
off Jamie at one point he just shows up
on camera as a prisoner right but like
you didn't you didn't see him being
taken prisoner yeah you don't have a
sense of what that we don't give over
sense of why he lost that battle yeah
obviously that was more dramatic and
more interesting to have some sense of
that no so all of that they've just cut
out the actual Wars edited out yeah as
well as the the consequences of the war
yeah oh yeah and I thought the wildlings
like the the parts of the season I think
it's a season two or three about the
wildlings that was
because yeah because it showed a
different different class those people
right okay so to me the welcome start
with the wireless for a minute I mean to
me as someone who cares about politics
but also anthropology and history and
yeah let's just stick with anthropology
you know the way different ethnic groups
live amongst each other we live in an
area of China now we live in the border
with Myanmar where there are several
nationalities or ethnic minorities who
until recently were considered savages
and who did engage in headhunting and
cannibalism and what-have-you these are
features of locals IDs and we still have
some things that celebrate those aspects
of the culture like um just dancing with
swords stuff like that yeah but they
don't actually kill any people anymore
that I know of
um some of the best friends the
descendants of cannibals aren't there
you know but this issue of savagery and
barbarism and you know who are you
calling a savage this kind of thing I
you know many people say of this series
that nobody is really good and nobody is
really evil that everyone shades of grey
I don't necessarily think that's true or
useful and I mean with the with the
wildlings is certainly the TV shows
depiction of them
how can anyone sympathise with a side
whether society is built on raping and
pillaging and looting and and white
thing el villagers they're not you know
they don't even take slaves they don't
take prisoners what's what's shown on
the TV show is that they steal from
those they kill every single person in
the village yeah
died you know I mean again maybe the
word evil is banal or irrelevant like
maybe it's not useful therefore this is
good or evil but there's not really no
real shades of grey here right yeah and
their only justification I mean you may
not remember this in the TV show their
only justification is that oh we have
someone of the live stream from commits
interesting okay sorry
alright so we're not so far away from
you because we know Matias
oh is that how we got here all right
cool anyway that's cool
showed out the could Ming we're just
down the road in
into home but yeah I mean whether or not
you want to use words like good and evil
I thought that really showed it in a
very different very different moral and
ethical framework there's no way you can
compromise that to somebody do you have
a Treaty of cooperation with that so
anyway that kind of goes nowhere
if there's so far in the show we have
another season coming up but nothing
interesting really comes out of the
ethical questions stirring the wildlings
on the TV show I get the sense in the
books that that is going somewhere
dressing and even the author's choice of
terms you know so the author chooses to
describe them as the wildlings from
civilized societies perspective and then
they describe themselves as the free
folk yeah and there's this discussion of
what is freedom it's on Doheny all right
yeah they refused to kneel they regard
kneeling as yes contemptible and so on
yeah so I mean they're I think the books
haven't done it yet but that's driving
towards some sort of you know some sort
of interesting set of set of questions
and we can get back to just chatting
with people and last year this has only
been you know 11 minutes so far talking
about Game of Thrones we get die oval
game of Thrones for hours but look let
me just ask you is there anything it
stands in your mind as an example of bad
writing straight-up when you watch this
in terms of how it's constructed or what
it is look I just did a digression as
much as I praised george RR martin for
creating this you know corpus of
literature it's a largely improvised
work of literature and you know the more
I read it the more I scrutinize and I
know people say they just like the more
they read the books and where they love
them I I think there are some examples
of bad writing you know on the TV show
but some of it is is a product of what's
there in the books no for sure yeah I
think most of the scenes of tenaris are
very robotic yeah very well yeah to me
to me it's kind of mind-blowing but I
mean wrong actress for the part I agree
that the actual acting is robotic but
it's also true if you replace that
actress if you had it written exactly
the same as it is now if you didn't
change anything in the script even the
best actress in the world couldn't
couldn't make those scenes interesting
right oh yeah yeah we were talking about
that with Joffrey
Capri managed to make some Turanian but
now it was I watching a thing watching
the second time the actor who played
Joffrey Wow I had so much respect for
that actor I don't know if he's going to
go on to do other things but yeah yeah
he's a great example of that but no I
mean there's no agonizing you know
there's so many issues in Mereen that
could be interesting what is slavery and
what is freedom and how do you end
slavery and how does she regard the
society how do they regard her she's a
foreign barbarian has conquered the
society she's not welcome there but you
know what does it mean to rule she's
never been a king before or queen before
sorry she's never been in charge of
anything before really except a band of
refugees in the middle of the desert now
she's actually a queen who was an actual
Kingdom there are a lot of ways a good
filmmaker or good screenwriter could
play that up including you know maybe
she's just not used to living with
servants and the servants still refer to
themselves as slaves and she says the
servants know you're not a slave I mean
it seems to me any decent Hollywood
writer could sit down and brainstorm you
know around a table and come up with a
whole lot of interesting ideas just to
illustrate that scenario and the
discomfort and like in the book it's
again it's not great writing but in the
book at least to give an example there's
there's tension around whether or not
she's going to start dressing like a
local person you know whether she's
going to continue to dress like a
foreigner or he's gonna adopt the style
and dress the local people and even then
she's not just addressing that she's not
adding self a local person she's
adopting the style of a local slave
master that's the reality and you know
that's kind of powerful and interesting
you know so there's an opportunity there
that the show just seems to squander and
the scenes they do have even if they
sound dramatic there was nothing
dramatic about Daenerys receiving the
the bones of a dead child there was
nothing interesting out that it was
totally robot I mean all those even if I
described them in an interesting way
just you know there was nothing
interesting about it there is a scene
with the chicken
the hound asked first okay that was in
trouble writers yeah the owner of the
shop just refused to write I'll give him
write em a chicken for free then they
just fought to the death and everybody
in the tavern would you are yeah now
look around everybody in the tavern yeah
anyway to it so we're doing this never
warm and obviously the next scene this
is before the next season the show
starts broadcasting I assume we'll watch
that together and comment on it but I
don't know most you'll stable to show is
that the best thing about the show is
that it inspires people to take the time
and read the books and I guess that is
true but it's also true that you know
whenever the show falls short of what
the books have to offer
it's just crushing it just feels awful
you know it just feels awful to the
whole so we didn't miss the whole
treatment of Shaye you know shade the
prostitute with a heart of gold that
turned you know that turns out to be a
heart of whole you know we're you know I
don't know I had mixed feelings I had
mixed feelings about about I mean
obviously you know a lot of the audience
I think I think loved that storyline I
love that play oh yeah there was too
much too much torture affion oh okay
okay well look this is another thing we
didn't even mention this one of the main
reasons she never watched the show
previously was this reputation for
nudity and violence yeah and the new
idiot is new in violent you know the
extent to which it just seems like the
screenwriters sat down and said how many
different scenes can we set inside a
brothel you know and the nudity is not
sexy and it's not interesting
it is gratuitous and the worst sense of
its if anything it's sort of obstructive
you know what I mean like the whole
treatment of sexuality is is awful and I
think that does I think it does corrode
the plot you know what I mean like
because you know human sexuality is a
significant part okay big big theme big
trope so you know the whole the whole
question of littlefinger sexuality yeah
and Littlefinger's lifelong obsessive
crush on his high school girlfriend or
prior to even primary school girlfriend
we know but they go back fishing right
okay so I mean there's there's a certain
view of human sexuality there and then
there they're exploring that or
examining that it
it's literally set inside a brothel with
these corny new dancers and needless
lesbian sex scenes happening in the
background
yeah and I was there the scene with
Podrick yeah so I know three [ __ ] I
speak no payment I know I know I know
I know sir but that I mean they're there
they're in this they're on the same set
I mean it's the same character in the
same milia you know like it really does
destroy any attempt to do something
meaningful or interesting and looking at
love really love so we're talking about
here but you know love and sexuality in
terms of little fingers whole plot and
Catlins plot and there's also Santa's
plot so that's that's destroyed and you
know I mean there were other
opportunities I mean what does love mean
to the Hound the on the TV show they
choose to make the Hound someone who's
obsessed with killing in this really
boring shallow way but I mean he's
really not I mean love and romance are
part of his storyline and fans of the
book know that God is the show so there
are a lot of opportunities that and of
course all the female characters who
adopt the sword you know the different
female characters who want more of a
male role in society which happens again
and again and again McLean was obviously
Brienne and then Brienne does fall in
love with Jamie to some extent right
there's some kind of romance so there's
a lot there to explain you know this
this thing of just having as many scenes
as possible inside a brothel
it really does hamper this as a work of
art you know both as an adaptation of
the book and in terms of you know
examining examining on its own so yeah
it's wince-inducing yeah look you know
just say this in closing I remember
where the liner notes to a CD that was
like a Greatest Hits jazz CD blue no
jazz and it said you know there was a
time in American history when popular
music was also great art oh the great
way to put it and we are going through a
brief period here with Game of Thrones
where a mainstream hit TV show is also a
great work of literature it's a very
rare circumstance and
I'm making the most of it hey for me the
best news was hearing on the internet
the george RR martin plans to do a total
of ten Dunkin eggs stories yeah so I
hope I live long enough I hope he lives
long enough because that man is not
vegan he's teetering on the edge of a
heart attack and worse I mean I hope I
hope he gets on a healthier diet but for
me that was a ray of hope so I do look
forward to the rest of the duck nails
okay guys that's enough for this video
we are out